if you're not actively following an
animal the best way to get a radio
signal in dense jungle like this is to
get above it and I'm starting to learn
something else about this island there
are no limits
Wow isn't this great I'm about 50 meters
up from the ground with a stunning view
over the whole forest canopy this tower
is one of seven that forms a spy network
over the entire island there's one over
there and there's one right behind me 24
hours a day they're tuned into the radio
signals being transmitted from the
forest below and beaming them back to
computers in the lab the great thing
about these powers is they don't need to
eat drink or even go to the toilet
they don't need a break at all
now these towels are constantly talking
to each other what are they talking
about well mainly they're talking about
ocelots ague teeth and a soft there have
been radio-collared and are living
somewhere in the forest below me
scientists can now monitor the animals
they rarely get a glimpse of by remote
control
the computers compare the strength of
signals from the collars to work out the
animals location so now researchers can
tell where each individual is at any
time of day or night
but what's really revolutionary about
the tower network is that it also
broadcasts what the animals are doing
motion sensors in their collars reveal
when they're active sleeping and
occasionally when they've died giving us
surprising insights into an agouti z--
life
the date from the tower shows that
summer duties are up and about all night
why would they risk coming out when so
many predators are on the prowl this is
just one mystery scientists are hoping
they will solve using the wonders of
radio waves